NORTH SOUTH CHOKE - ALIGNMENT AND POSITIONING
MARCELO GARCIA
Oh, I don't thank you guys.
Um, I have the side control.
I was able to get the person's hands out of the way.
And I get over here, I, look, it's, it's almost like you take a shot and then you hit the shot, you know you cut the person's neck open, you're good to go, so you need to just organize to do everything right.
But then sometimes people get over here and the person's not moving, but then the other person start moving on top like too much.
I don't know if you guys can see it, but if I go too far, all my pressure is going to one side of his head and not against his neck, so I'm, I'm taking the pressure like away from the, from the, from the position.
So once I got over here, once I feel like my shoulder is aligned with with his shoulder, I don't want to get drive and push more.
I have to make sure like my head is going straight like towards his feet and I, I'm staying lined up with him.
And if I shift my hip a little bit, I tend to start losing my balance if he move, I get off of balance.
So I, I'm going to lose the position too. So the most important.
As, as a, a base over here is to have my body aligned with him.
So my body is aligned so I don't fall.
My body's alignment, so I make sure all the pressure goes against his neck.
I have the other hand connect.
I start doing the squeeze.
I stay aligned with his body and my feet stay on the ground.
Not my knee. I'm not putting just my knee, I'm just pulling like my toes on the ground, just to stay in the position.
And then I'm.
I'm putting a constant pressure.
I'm not doing like 100% I'm like, oh my arm's tired and taking a little bit of pressure, I'm putting 100% and my arm's getting tired or a little bit.
Less pressure, I'm keeping like a steady pressure.
I find align.
I get my shoulder pressure against against his neck.
I keep everything tight.
And just just squeeze.
If I start like putting pressure and take it out, every time I take it out, I feel like he take a a deep breath again.
So I have to keep a a slow pressure, but constant pressure and I, I trust on that pressure because I know his head is in place.
So, I was able to get here.
Keep his head locked and just keep the pressure.
Then I don't need to take much, I just cannot lose the position.
And usually people lose the position because they start to adjust the position, they start to like move.
They start to bend and then they lose the position and they end up on the back.
So, all I'm doing, I lean over here, I know I'm aligned with with his legs.
Now what I have to do is just to keep my feet a little bit wide.
If I put my feet together.
I'm going to roll.
So I don't want to roll, I'm just going to keep my leg kind of like slightly spread out.
It's not completely spread out, just slight spread out.
And my feet post because once he bump, my feet has to pull.
If he bumps the other way, my feet has to pull and then I have the position.
So foot.
And guys.
You see someone is that control.
When I'm teaching and I see my students drilling, I go, look, I find they're doing the move and the person's head is, is like this.
They almost felt like the, the person's head like is close to their shoulder.
So you just have to do the same choke with the same squeeze with your body line up with his body.
One more time.
And if you're not sure.
You just have to work and practice so we can have that sense of like, oh I'm going too far.
If my feet start walking too much, look, I can see, I can see the line of his leg.
If my feet start passing towards the line, means like I'm, I'm change, I'm change the posture of his body.
And so his head is not going to be straight.
So I clean up his hand, I drop the other hand, I go, and squeeze, drop, and suck.
This hand, like I said.
If I take too long to connect, I'm going to lose the choke because he's going to break up.
So this thing has to be quick to kick in.
As I'm get over here, I just drop my shoulder.
My feet is still on the ground and I just maintain like a steady squeeze.
Steady squeeze because.
That should be.
That should be the type of squeeze that can last long.
I feel.
I, I never come.
But I feel when I do the choke, I do the type of squeeze that I feel like I can hold maybe two minutes that choke.
I can hold the choke like a.
I'm, I'm not going 100%, I'm going like a 6%, maybe 7% if the person is really tough, but most like I, I'm just like I feel I can hold maybe two minutes on that choke.
I don't think if you have if I have a perfect choke, I don't think nobody really last that long because it's like a choke, like you have your head under the water, you're not breathing, but like, you, you got, you got to have the other person like that.
Getting choked, if you just keep a steady steady pressure.
And then obviously like, that's what, that's what you want, you want to make the other person tap from there.
But first, you have to make sure you have your body aligned with his body.
```